Instagram has forever changed. And so
today, I'm going to show you exactly why
you aren't getting the views you feel
like you deserve, how the algorithm has
shifted, and what you need to be doing
in order to get success on Instagram.
Right now, the first thing that we need
to understand is that there is a
imbalance between supply and demand. And
this is something that isn't necessarily
an Instagram issue. This is something
that is going on on all social media
platforms right now where basically the
supply which is the amount of posts
being shared, the amount of things being
posted, the amount of video content
being uploaded on a daily basis has
significantly increased. There is not
only way more posts being posted every
single day, but there's way more people
creating content and thus posting things
every single day as well. And so those
two things multiplied together has led
to a significant rise in the supply of
content being shared. But the demand is
arguably decreasing. Yes, people are
spending more time online than ever
before. But when you compare
specifically 2024, 2025, and onward,
people are spending slightly less time
on their phone than they were in 2020
and 2021. When we were all stuck at home
on lockdown, the amount of time we spent
each day scrolling and consuming content
increased. So during the pandemic,
demand was at an all-time high. But now
on Instagram especially, but really on
pretty much all social media platforms,
supply has increased and demand has
either plateaued or slightly decreased
in recent years. Does this mean that
it's impossible to grow, to get views,
or to have success? No, absolutely not.
In fact, in the last year, our average
Insta Club student has grown by almost
16,000 followers per person. 15,947
followers per person to be exact. So,
it's still possible as long as you're
using the right strategies and the right
techniques. And that's a lot of what I'm
going to be sharing with you today. But,
it's important to start here because we
all have to understand that competition
is at an all-time high. the things that
worked even just 3 years ago, arguably
even just 3 months ago, are not going to
be effective anymore. And so, you're in
the right place. I'm glad that you're
watching today because you're about to
learn the strategies of what is
effective right now and what is going to
be working moving forward. But you have
to recognize that what got you here will
not get you there. Arguably the most
important thing that you need to keep in
mind as someone who wants to grow a
brand or business on all social medias
is that the audience matters more than
the algorithm. Yes, I am constantly
posting about the new algorithm updates
and letting you know what changes and
what things we're seeing take place in
the algorithm, but truly it is the
audience or the average people or the
collective mass of society, the human
beings that dictate where the algorithms
go. If the algorithms were just
constantly making random changes, well
then the audience, us as users, as
consumers, we would not enjoy being on
the platform. We would not be as
addicted to these platforms as we are.
The audience is what dictates the
algorithm. And so it's the audience that
needs to come first and is the
psychology of your average follower that
you need to understand in order to have
success on Instagram and arguably on all
social networks. So in order to
understand the psychology of our
followers and how the audience
preferences have shifted, I'm going to
draw a graph where here on the yaxis
we're going to have just the total
number of posts being made. And then the
horizontal xaxis is going to have the
quality of the content that is being
posted. And don't worry, we're going to
go in depth into what I mean by quality.
As I've been thinking more about this
graph, I realized that it really falls
into what's called a normal distribution
or sometimes called a bell curve
distribution. And within this bell
curve, this middle part here represents
about 99% of the content that is being
posted every single day on Instagram.
According to the most recent data, about
38.5%
of all content shared on Instagram is
reals. That's actually a slight increase
from the end of 2024, which means that
there are more people posting more reels
than ever before. And 99% of reels fall
in this middle ground. And we're going
to talk about what this middle ground
means in just a second. But before we do
that, let me explain what is on either
end of the bell curve here. What is on
either end of the extreme or of the
distribution. On this far left side, we
have very little posts being made in
this category, but they're also very low
quality. On the opposite end of the bell
curve, we also have very little posts
being made in this area, but that's the
super high quality content. But what's
changed over the last few years and
especially the last few months is that
this content, the content that is super
lowquality or the content on the
opposite end that is super high quality,
super cinematic and professional, that
is the only content that is performing
well. Back in the day, if you just
posted good enough content, middle-of
the road content, you would get results.
You could expect views. But now because
of the increase in competition, because
of the change in user habits and
preferences, only the lowest of
lowquality content and the highest of
high-quality content is actually going
to perform. So with that being said, let
me give you a more clear definition for
lowquality, highquality, and then the
middle ground, which is what 99% of
people are currently making. The
lowquality content is what I've heard
some people refer to as FaceTime
content. It's also been called yapping
content where a yapper is someone who
just talk talk talks. I'm definitely a
yapper. Yapping content. It's the
content that has literally zero editing.
It might have like some simple closed
captions attached to it, but there's no
cutting. There's minimal editing.
There's no effects or transitions or
music or sound effects. This is the kind
of content that is especially popular on
Tik Tok. So, if you're someone who
primarily consumes or creates content
for Tik Tok, I would recommend leaning
into this style of lowquality or some
might call it loweffort content. And
when I say lowquality content, I'm not
meaning that you should intentionally
smudge your camera or that you should
worsen your audio quality. There are
certain expectations that we have when
consuming content that we can hear the
audio and see the video. So, I'm not
encouraging you to intentionally make
your quality worse by recording with a
flip phone or smudging your camera or
doing anything like that. I simply mean
minimal editing, minimal video
production. Whip out your phone and
start recording. Don't even use a
tripod. Prop your phone up on a window
and just hit record. Hopefully, hearing
this news and this change is encouraging
for most of you because the loweffort
content is of course the content that we
can produce more of. It's the content
that is easier to make. It's simpler for
you to put out. And my hope is that this
episode also encourages you to just
press post because ultimately you might
not know what's going to perform well.
You might not know how people are going
to respond. And so I want to just
encourage you to press post, share that
post, put it out into the world, and
then judge it rather than having it sit
in your drafts or in your list of ideas
constantly overanalyzing it and thinking
about it. instead post it and then you
can judge it. Then of course on the
opposite end of the spectrum where we
have the high quality content that is
performing well. This is the stuff that
is cinematic. It has color grading. It
has dynamic edits. It has sound effects.
It has transitions. It has multiple cuts
and B-roll. The more editing the better.
This level of content used to be only
obtainable by a select few. Now it's
much more accessible. Now, we pretty
much all have smartphones that can shoot
in HD. And with free tools like the
Edits app or Cap Cut, you can create
some pretty complex, professionallook
edits. But just because it's more
accessible doesn't mean it's necessarily
simple or easy. Creating a well-edited
video takes time. Even for someone who's
a professional, it's going to take
multiple hours to create just one
professionallook cinematic short form
video. And so, of course, unless you
have a massive team or a massive budget,
it's going to be really difficult to
create a high quantity of this super
highquality content. When you are
creating this high-quality content,
definitely incorporate some of the
things I've already mentioned, like good
editing, good lighting, good sound
effects, transitions, and music. The
bottom line is that overall, this
highquality content is going to take a
lot of time, energy, and effort to
produce. It's going to take practice.
It's going to take hours. It's going to
take studying other content creators and
video producers to see what really works
from them and incorporate elements from
their styles into your own. That takes
time, energy, and effort. And so, if
you're someone who's just getting
started or you just don't have the
capabilities of creating this super
highquality content, lean into the
loweffort content. Lean into the
FaceTime videos. lean into the raw,
imperfect, unpolished, unedited video
content. This content feels so much more
authentic. And I believe that ultimately
that is why it's performing better. It
has become so easy for the average
person scrolling on social media to pick
out what edits have been made and to
pick out what filters have been added
and to recognize that each level of
filtering, each level of editing is
getting us farther and farther and
farther away from that authentic moment.
Nothing is more authentic than a live
video. If you were watching me on live
right now, if you were like sitting in
this room with me, you would see all of
my mistakes. You would see all of my
errors. you would see every little time
that I've had to draw something and then
erase it and then re-record a sentence.
And so that would feel super authentic
because it's unedited. It's unfiltered.
It is truly as real as it gets unless
you were like sitting in this room,
right? So that's why people prefer that
content. That's why the authentic
content, the real in the- moment
unedited stuff is performing so well.
But like I said, what most people are
posting what 99% of the content being
shared is is this middle ground where
you're putting forth some effort. You're
doing some editing. You're doing a
little bit of tweaking and refining, but
you're not taking it all the way to
making it super high quality. You're
taking it just enough to remove the
authenticity factor. Four super common
mistakes that a lot of people are making
that are ending them up in this middle
ground where they're getting no
engagement. They're doing a little bit
of ending, a little bit of effort, but
they're seeing little to no returns. Is
number one, the fancy captions. This was
made popular by Alex Hormoszi, and it's
now what's called the Hormosi style
edit. It's the kind of short form video
where you're talking directly to camera,
and there's some big, bold,
attentiongrabbing closed captions on the
screen. There's not a ton of editing.
There's no transitions or effects or
B-roll. It's just that the closed
captions, which in the past were just a
plain white text, maybe with a black
outline, they are now yellow text or
they're neon or they pop onto the
screen. And so, for a few years, this
really worked to grab people's
attention. But now, thanks to templates
that are in Cap Cut, thanks to the
captions app and numerous other apps,
it's really democratized the ability to
add fancy captions to your videos. And
so, those fancy captions, they don't
strike people the same way. They don't
grab the same attention that they did
just a few years ago. And so that's now
no longer a high quality form of
editing. That is a middle-of the road or
good enough amount of editing. And thus
it's going to get very poor engagement.
Number two is fake podcasts. Fake
podcast is something that is super
popular in the world of experts and
coaches. People like myself who set up a
fancy camera and a fake microphone and
then instead of looking at the camera,
they look off to the side of it and they
pretend like they're talking to an
interviewer, but really they're just
recording clips and sound bites for
short form video for Instagram reels.
Fake podcasts a few years ago, super
impressive. But now everyone and their
mama has their own podcast. And so being
on a podcast, having these podcast
clips, it's just not as engaging as it
once was. Number three on this list is
generic B-roll. Now, B-roll can be a way
to really improve your editing. If you
want to get into this high quality,
higheffort style of content, you're
going to want to include more B-roll
clips. B-roll clips are kind of like the
secondary footage. So, it's not you
talking to the camera. It's the clips
that are cut in and added to the video
to add context or more dynamic visuals,
etc. And so generic B-roll is where
people can get in trouble getting random
stock videos or stock images from the
internet. For example, if I was a
fitness creator and I was making a
talking head reel about better push-up
technique, I would want to use a video
of myself demonstrating poor push-up
technique versus good push-up technique
rather than just some generic videos
that I find on the internet of random
people doing push-ups. And then last but
not least, using random effects. And by
random effects, I mean random sound
effects and random transitions or video
effects. This is a kind of editing where
again a few years ago people were really
engaged if your video had some cool
filter on it. Think about how
revolutionary it was when Snapchat came
out with the dog ears filter or any of
the other face filters that they
created. A decade ago, adding a unique
filter or effect to your video made you
stand out. It was cool. It was unique.
But now it feels like a gimmick. It
feels like you're trying to trick your
audience into engaging or you're trying
to trick them into interacting with your
video. So, use sound effects, use
filters, use transitions, but use them
intentionally. Use sound in order to
build on emotions. Use transitions to
visually get a point across. Don't just
slap a random effect onto your video
hoping that people are going to be wowed
by it. To say all of this another way,
if you were to replace quantity or the
number of posts that was on the y-axis
with something like views, then what we
would end up with is an upside down bell
curve where again either the lowest of
the lowquality, the raw, imperfect, in
the- moment, loweffort content and the
highest of the highquality professional
cinematic content is getting views and
everyone else is ending up in here in
the middle where you're doing a little
bit of work. You're creating content
that is good enough, but you're getting
views that are next to nothing. So, what
does all this ultimately mean for you?
It probably means that it's time for you
to stop overthinking your content. Stop
worrying about the editing that you're
doing, unless you are going to take it
to the upper end extreme of creating
professional cinematic content. But if
you look yourself in the mirror and you
can realistically admit that that's just
not you, that's not what you're going to
be creating anytime soon, lean into the
loweffort content. Lean into the content
where you are speaking directly to
camera. Lean into the content where you
are telling a story rather than
scripting out a real. Lean into the
content that has little to no edits
rather than the content that has some
random sound effects, gifs placed on the
screen, or transitions that just don't
make any sense. Every single one of us
is looking for people that are real,
people that are genuine and honest,
people that are going to give us tips
and strategies and helpful advice, not
because they want to sell us on a
course, but because they truly just want
to serve us. We're looking for people
who are telling their story
authentically, so we can connect and
resonate with them, so we can feel a
little bit less lonely in the world,
even if we're sitting alone in our house
as we scroll through Instagram. I am in
no way encouraging you to do what's
called posting, which is where you
post random stuff, anything and
everything. You just throw spaghetti
against the wall and you intentionally
post bad content. In no way is that what
I'm telling you to do. But what I am
telling you to do is to stop putting so
much pressure on yourself. Stop
demanding highquality professional
cinematic content from yourself when
that's just not what you're capable of
right now. Because when you strive for
professional content, but that's not
what you're capable of, you end up with
middle-of the road content, and
middle-of the road content is never
going to perform well. So, yes,
absolutely incorporate everything that I
have ever shared with you about what
makes a good post. Think about your
hooks, think about your target audience,
think about the words you're saying and
not saying, think about your SEO, think
about all of those things. But
ultimately, just press post because it's
through pressing post that you're going
to get better. If your ultimate goal is
to create highquality cinematic content,
you create that content by posting
something, failing, and learning from
it. You create highquality professional
posts through creating hundreds of posts
that weren't really all that high
quality and weren't really all that
professional. One of my favorite stories
that relates to this topic is the story
of a college art professor who split his
class into two, exactly 50/50. and he
told half the class that you will be
graded on the number of submissions that
you create at the end of the semester. I
don't remember if it was a photography
class or if they were doing ceramics or
what kind of art it was, but they were
going to be graded not based off of
their best works, not based off their
final project. They were just going to
be based off of how much can you create
during the semester. And then he told
the other half the class, the other 50%,
you would be graded based off of your 10
best submissions. So, you better make
sure they're good. you better make sure
that they're professional, highquality,
and you can only submit 10 at the end of
the semester for a grade. And you might
already see where this is going, but the
group that was told to focus on
quantity, the group that was told to
focus on just creating and not worrying
about making their best possible work,
but just creating as much as they
possibly could, they ended up number one
creating far better outcomes. what they
produced was way higher quality, way
more professional, and way more creative
than what the group who was told to
focus on those things was able to
create. And arguably a more important
fact is that the first group, the group
that was told to just focus on quantity
enjoyed the class so much more. They
reported such higher levels of
satisfaction and enjoyment with the
class that semester because they weren't
stressed. They weren't putting pressure
on themselves to create an A+ essay
every time, an A+ slam dunk home run
touchdown post every single time.
Instead, they were just focused on
showing up. They were just focused on
creating. They were just focused on
putting their ideas out there into the
world. And so, if you take nothing else
away from today's episode, it is exactly
that. Just press post. Put your ideas
out into the world. Judge them based off
their performance after they have been
posted, not based off how you think they
will perform when they're sitting in
your list of drafts or ideas. Thank you
so much for listening today. And if you
want any tips on how to actually improve
your editing, the quality of your
content and move yourself towards that
professional, more cinematic level of
content, check out any of the other
episodes that we have recently put out
on Build Your Tribe. Thank you for
listening. Don't forget to subscribe and
as always, happy networking.